## Summary

As a Systems Administrator/Engineer I have learned to embrace and thrive while
solving new problems.  To solve problems, I have deployed and configured systems
or built them from scratch. New situations outside of my expertise motivate me
to develop and learn new and old technologies.  I am looking forward to
tomorrow's problems as an opportunity to better myself today.

## Work History

__Senior System Administrator/DevOps__

####Pulsara
#####April 2015 – Present (1 year 4 months)                               Bozeman MT.

As a member of Pulsara, I automate application code and infrastructure
deployments using principles of immutable infrastructure.  This includes machine
image creation, firewalls, network, security and backups deployed using
repeatable processes without manual server administrative actions.

**Company Impact:**

* Replaced single point of failure database node with highly available
  Galera MySQL cluster split across AWS availability zones.

* Split web servers and utilty traffic across AWS availability zones to
  improve high availability.

* Designed and implemented failover procedures and automation for primary
  database node.

* Create and use Chef Solo recipes for server image provisioning.
  Provisioning is used by Vagrant, Amazon Web Services and Google Cloud
  Platform for server image creation.

* Implemented monitoring using Datadog monitoring to gather machine
  performance and monitor systems.  This includes creation of custom monitors
  and metrics.

* Implemented OSSEC host based IDS system for security.  Designed deployment
  using beanstalkd for automated deployment.  Notifications are presented in
  slack versus traditional email system.

* Documented and streamlined creation of infrastructure and stack updates
  using AWS Cloud Formation and Google Deployment Manager.

* Updated production web server deployment to allow for close to zero
  noticeable impact to customers.

* Updated TLS profiles on Elastic load balancers to allow only acceptable
  cipher sets.

* Reimplemented Pulsara software and infrastructure on Google Cloud Platform
  using deployment manager.

* Wrote HIPAA compliant de-identified database extraction process for
  internal and customer audits.

* Reduce product latency by continually reviewing MySQL slow log for
  problem queries and queries not using indexes.

* Engineered solution for database image rolling with zero to minimal
  customer impact.

__Systems Administrator__

ORACLE RightNow
July 2009 – April 2015 (5 years 10 months)                           Bozeman MT.

Administer, engineer and deploy systems for development and quality assurance
testing. Including firewalls, F5 LTMs, physical and virtual server environments.
Deploy and test new architectures to support the RightNow CX product before
promotion to production. Engineer and maintain automation systems and processes
to allow for automated product testing. Deploy, maintain and monitor 400 plus
virtual servers and 30 plus physical servers.

**Company Impact:**

• I am currently one of four employees who know how deploy a "Cloud Pod", full
  product supporting environment, from the ground up. Created and maintain
  documentation for processes and systems deployment of product support
  environments.

• Enhance, debug, patch and deployed updates and bug-fixes to Python based
  hosting management system(HMS).

• Created an Web based automation system to allow QA Engineers to recreate
  and manage their own automated regressions runs.

• Increased the QA automation run by 200% by deploying additional windows
  hosts and extended product environment to facilitate parallelism.

• Created an updated Python based MySQL database management system to monitor
  and fix replication issues.

• Became go-to guy for MySQL, Python, Git and MS Powershell information and
  issues.

• Created Git repositories to manage source code of back-end automated e
  processes.

• Created YUM repository to package and deploy RPMs to maintained systems.

• Created tools to aid in automation of system deployment using Python, Bash,
  Powershell, YUM and RPMS.

• Created VMware ESXi reports using MS Windows Powershell and PowerCLI.

• Created a sudo like C++ executable allowing fine grain access to product
  files while separating access to operating system files. This allowed for
  audit-able access to product files while allowing QA Engineers convenient
  access.

• Debug and solve network issues on firewalls, F5 LTMs and pod infrastructure.

__Systems Administrator/Engineer__

Zoot Enterprises
April 2006 – June 2009 (3 years 3 months)                            Bozeman MT.

Team lead for the Tools (processes and automation) department of Zoot's system's
administration. Developed and maintained all Python, Bash and PERL back-end
support systems for Zoot's credit decisioning engine. Responsible for design,
implementation and fulfillment for analytics, statistics and monitoring of
Zoot's ASP processes. Primary administrator for SSH/SFTP, Connect Direct, FTP,
PGP and CVS on Linux systems. Worked with configuration management staff in
maintaining Python and PERL module support.

**Company Impact:**

• Enhanced coding standards for Python and Bash programming including code
  installation and management in CVS.

• Designed and reimplemented back-end ASP support systems.

• Secured FTP and SFTP external client accounts with proper configuration and
  use of rssh and jailkit change root(chroot) systems.

• Created and maintain automated enterprise billing reporting service.

• Adapted Bugzilla, an open source software management system, to include a
  poster board. This included PERL/CGI and MySQL changes.

• Aided in the acquisition of a new client by contributing to specialized
  implementation team. Created environment and manipulated production data to
  facilitate load and performance run of client data against new code base.

• Created production environment for co-located third party software. This
  included creation of user accounts, environment setup, log archival,
  automation of billing processing and full automation of cascading update/
  monitoring service for software product.

• Repaired and configured applications on new customer test servers meeting
  strict client deadlines. Project would have been tabled for three months if
   deadline was not met.

• Started organized development and version management of rc startup scripts
   for production services on production and internal test Linux servers.

• Provided training to technical support staff on back-end services and CVS.

• 3 years on 24-7 production server support.


__Systems Engineer__
Zoot Enterprises
April 2005 – April 2006 (1 year 1 month)                             Bozeman MT.

Developed and maintained client software platforms using a proprietary scripting
language for an instant credit decisioning engine. Provided consulting and
troubleshooting for 7 of the 10 largest financial institutions in the United
States.

**Company Impact:**

• Developed tools in PERL and Bash scripting languages for testing and
  development which increased both job performance and efficiency.

• Supported source changes to proprietary scripting language for MS SQL Server
  to Oracle database conversion. This included debugging errors found in
  stored procedures during conversion.

• Became a respected resource with the department regarding system wide
  technologies and behaviors.
